---
  layout: post
  title: S3 Lab
  subtitle: S3 Console
  tags: [ storage, s3, console, lab ]
  categories: storage
  author: Eshan Shafeeq
  header_img: 
---

> S3 Buckets are managed at a global level, even two different aws accounts wont be able to have the same bucket name. Since bucketnames are used in a DNS namespace. Every bucket has a web address. `https://s3-[region].amazonaws.com/[bucketname]`

* You can have logging enabled in your bucket, this logs on all the activities that goes on in your bucket.
* You can set tags to keep track of costs.
* By default all buckets are private, you can grant public access to a given bucket. 
* By default S3 Log delivery group does not have permission to write to buckets.
* If you do an upload containing 2 objects, it will say one upload successful on successful upload. Since both the objects were uploaded in one upload.
* If you click on the link for an object, (which is given in the object propertise) by default it will give you an XML error page with access denied. You will have to make the object public readable in order to get rid of this. ( Object -> More -> Make Public )
* If you would like to change who has permissions on the object, object -> permissions, and then you can add other aws accounts or make it public.
* If you goto the object propertise, and click on storage class. Here you will be able to change the storage class from Standard to Infrequent Access or Reduced Redundency.
* On the object propertise you even have encryption, (This is server side encryption).
* You can also add in your own metadata.
* You can also add in tags for the object. ( Objects within the bucket dont inherit the buckets tags )
* Minimum size of objects in S3 object is 0 bytes.
* on the bucket propertise you can enable ( By default everything is turned off )
    * Versioning of all the objects in the bucket.
    * Access logs
    * Static Website hosting
    * Tags
    * Transfer Acceleration
    * Events - Recieve notifications when there are changes made to your bucket.
    * Requester Pays 

* There are two ways to control the access to your S3 buckets
    * Access Control Lists
    * Bucket Policies
        * You can use policy generator to help you generate the json.
* On the management on bucket overview page
    * You can add rules for bucket lifecycle management.
    * You can create replications to add buckets to other regions.
    * You can view bucket analytics
    * You can view bucket metrics
    * You can also view bucket inventory

### Exam tips
* Buckets are universal namespaced
* Upload an object to S3 receive HTTP 200 code
* S3, S3 IA, S3 RR
* Encryption
    * Client Side Encryption
    * Server Side Encryption
        * Server Side Encryption with amazon S3 Managed Keys (SSE-S3)
        * Server Side Encryption with KMS (SSE-KMS)
        * Server Side Encryption with Customer Provided Keys (SSE-C)
* Control Access to Buckets using either a bucket ACL or using Bucket Policies
* By default buckets are private and all objects stored inside them are private.

