---
  layout: post
  title: IAM
  subtitle: Identity Access Management 101
  tags: accounts, management, access control, security, authorization
  categories: IAM
  author: Eshan Shafeeq
  header_img: 
---

# Identity Access Management 101

### What is IAM
An AWS service which is dedicated to manage users and fine tune their level of access to the AWS console. Mainly used for the administration and management of user access.

### What does IAM give you
* Centralised control of your AWS account.
* Shared Access to your AWS account.
* Granular Permissions.
* Identity Federation ( including active directory, facebook, linkedin etc ).
* Multifactor Authentication.
* Provide temporary access for users/devices and services where necessary.
* Allows you to setup your own password rotation policy.
* Integrates with many different AWS services
* Support PCI DSS Compliance

### Critical Terms
* User - End Users ( poeple )
* Groups - A collection of users under one set of permissions.
* Roles - You create roles and assign them to AWS resources. ( ie EC2 instance )
* Policies - A document that defines one or more permissions ( can be attached to all 3 above )


### Security Token Service ( STS )
Grants users limited and temporary access to AWS resources. Users can come from three sources:
* Federation ( typically active directory )
    * Uses Security Assertion Markup Language ( SAML )
    * Grants temporary access based off the users Active Directory Credentials. Does not need to be a user in IAM.
    * Single sign on allows users to log into AWS console without assigning IAM credentails.
* Federation with Mobile Apps
    * Use Facebook/Amazon/Google or other OpenID providers to login.
* Cross Account Access
    * Let users from one AWS account access resources in another.

### Understanding Key Terms

* **Federation:** Combining or joining a list of users in one domain ( such as IAM ) with a list of users in another domain ( such as Active Directory, Facebook, etc )
* **Identity Broker:** A service that allows you to take an identity from point A and join it ( *federate it* ) to point B.
* **Identity Store:** Services like Active Directory, Facebook, Google etc.
* **Identities:** a user of a service like Facebook etc.

### Exam Answer Format

##### Scenario 1 

1. Develop an Identity Broker to communicate with LDAP and AWS STS.
2. Identity Broker always authenticates with LDAP first, then with AWS STS.
3. Application then gets temporary access to AWS resources.

##### Scenario 2

1. Develop an Identity Broker to communicate with LDAP and AWS STS.
2. Identity Broker always authenticates with LDAP first, gets an IAM Role associated with the user.
3. Application then authenticates with STS and assumes that IAM Role.
4. Application uses that IAM role to interact with S3.

### Active Directory Federation

##### Authentication via Active Directory Federation Service

1. Bob heads to the ADFS website to login
2. The login page authenticates Bob against Active Directory. Depending on the browser Bob may get prompted to enter his active directory credentials.
3. Bob's browser recieves a SAML assertion in the form of an authentication response from ADFS.
4. Bob's browser posts the SAML assertion to the AWS login endpoint for SAML.
    * Behind the scene the AssumeRoleWithSAML API is used to request temporary security credentials and then constructs a login URL to the AWS Management Console.
5. Bob's browser recieves the login URL and is redirected to the console.

From bobs perspective all he did was login to the AD portal and then redirected to the AWS management console.


### Web Identity Federation

##### Web Identity Federation for Mobile Application

1. Step 1 - Authenticate with Identity Provider
    * ie Facebook, Google, Twitter
2. Step 2 - Obtain Temporary Security Credentials
    * After obtaining an ID token, you can obtain temporary security credentials by making an AssumeRoleWithWebIdentity request.
3. Step 3 - Access AWS Resource
    * ie list all the objects in the S3 bucket.
    * download objects from the S3 bucket.


### Summary of IAM

* IAM consists of the following
    * Users - have permissions to access AWS Resources
    * Groups - which is a way to group the users and apply policies to them collectively.
    * Roles - a way to apply policies to have programatic access to AWS resources.
    * Policy Documents - JSON defition of permissions to AWS resources which can be applied to Users, Groups and Roles. 

* IAM is universal, does not apply to regions as of yet.
* The root account is the account which is created during the AWS account setup. It has complete Admin access by default.
* New users have **NO** permissions when first created.
* New users are assigned **Access Key ID & Secret Access Keys** when first created.
    * These are not the same as login credentials to login to AWS Management Console. This is only for the programatic access to the AWS resources via the AWS SDK / API's and AWS Cli.
    * You only get to view these credentials **(Access Key ID & Secret Access Keys)** only once, If you loose it has to be regenerated.
* Always have to setup *Multifactor Authentication* on the root account.
* You can create and customise your own password rotation policies.

