---
  layout: post
  title: VPC
  subtitle: 
  tags: [ networking, vpc, cloud data centre, firewall ]
  categories: networking
  author: Eshan Shafeeq
  header_img: 
---

### What is a VPC
This of a VPC as a virtual data centre in the cloud.

### AWS Definition
Amazon Virtual Private Cloud (Amazon VPC) lets you provision a logically isolated section of the Amazon Web Services (AWS) Cloud where you can launch AWS resources in a virtual network that you define. You have complete control over your virtual networking environment, including selection of your own IP address range, creation of subnets, and configuration of route tables and network gateways.

You can easily customize the network configuration for your Amazon Virtual Private Cloud. For example, you can create a public-facing subnet  for your webservers that has access to the Internet, and place your backend systems such as databases, or application servers in a private facing subnet with no Internet access. You can leverage multiple layers of security, including security groups and network access control lists, to help control access to Amazon EC2 Instances in each subnet.

Additionally You can create Hardware Virtual Private Cloud (VPN) connection between your coorporate datacenter and your VPC and leverage the AWS cloud as an extension of your corporate datacenter.

### What can you do with VPC?
* Launch instances into a subnet of your choosing.
* Assign Custom IP address range in each subnet.
* Configure routing tables between subnets.
* Create internet gateway and attach it to our VPC.
* Much better security control over the AWS resources.
* Instance security groups.
* Subnet network access control lists (ACLS).

### Default VPC vs Custom VPC
* Default VPC is user friendly, allowing you to immedietely deploy instances.
* All Subnets in the default VPC have a route out to the internet.
* Each EC2 instance has both public and private IP address.
    * If we deploy the instance to a private VPC subnet, the instance will not have any public IP address.

### VPC Peering
* Allows you to connect one VPC with another via direct network route using private IP address.
* Instances behave as if they were on the same private network.
* You can peer VPC's with other AWS accounts as well as with other VPC's in the same account.
* Peering is in a star configuration: ie 1 central VPC peers with 4 others. **No Transitive Peering!!**.

### Exam Tips VPC
* Think of VPC as a logical datacenter in AWS.
* Consists of IGWs (Or Virtual Private Gateways), Route Tables, Network Access Control Lists, Subnets, and Security Groups.
* 1 Subnet = 1 Availability Zone
* Security Groups are Stateful; Network Access Control Lists are Stateless.
* No Transitive peering.

### Exam Tips - NAT Instances
* When creating a NAT instance, Disable Source/Destination Check on the Instance.
* NAT instances must be in a public subnet.
* There must be a route out of the private subnet to the NAT instance, in order for this to work.
* The amount of traffic that NAT instances can support depends on the size. If you are bottlenecking, increase the instance size.
* You can also create high availability using auto scaling groups, multiple subnets in different AZs, and a script to automate failover.
* Its behind a gateway.

### Exam Tips - NAT Gateways
* Preferred by the enterprise
* Scale automatically upto 10Gbps
* No need to patch
* Not associated with security groups
* Automatically assigned a public ip address
* Remember to update your route tables.
* No need to disable Source/Destination Checks.
* More secure than a NAT instance

### Exam Tips - Network ACLs
* Your VPC automatically comes a default network ACL, and by default it allows all outbound and inbound traffic.
* You can create custom network ACLs. By default, each custom network ACL denies all inbound and outbound traffic until you add rules.
* Each subnet in your VPC must be associated with a network ACL. If you dont explicitly associate a subnet with a network ACL, the subnet is automatically associated with the default network ACL.
* You can associate a network ACL with multiple subnets; however one subnet can be associated with one network ACL at a time. When you associate a network ACL with a subnet, the previous association is removed.
* Network ACLs contain a numbered list of rules that is evaluated in order, starting with the lowest numbered rule.
* Network ACLs have seperate inbound and outbound rules, and each rule can either allow or deny traffic.
* Network ACLs are stateless; reponses to allowed inbound traffic are subject to the rules for outbound traffic (and vice versa).
* Block IP Addresses using ACLs not security groups.

### VPC Flow Logs
VPC Flow logs is a feature that enables you to capture information about the IP traffic going to and from network interfaces in your VPC. Flow log data is stored using Amazon CloudWatch Logs. After youve created flow log, you can view and retrieve its data in Amazon CloudWatch Logs.

* Flow logs can be created at 3 levels
    * VPC
    * Subnet
    * Network Interface Level

### Exam Tips - VPC Flow Logs
* You cannot enable flow logs for VPCs that are peered with your VPC unless the peer VPC is in your account.
* You cannot tag a flow log.
* After you have created a flow log, you cannot change its configuration; for example, you can't associate a different IAM role with the flow log.
* Not all IP traffic is monitored.
    * Traffic generated by instances when they contact the Amazon DNS server. If you use your own DNS server, then all traffic to that DNS server is logged.
    * Traffic generated by a Windows instance for Amazon Windows license activation.
    * Traffic to and from 169.254.169.254 for instance metadata
    * DHCP traffic.
    * Traffic to the reserved IP address for the default VPC router.

### NAT vs Bastion 
* A NAT instance is used to provide internet traffic to ec2 instances in private subnets
* A Bastion is used to securely administer EC2 instances ( using SSH or RDP ) in private subnets. In Australia we call them jump boxes.




