---
  layout: post
  title: Snowball
  subtitle: 
  tags: [ storage, transfer ]
  categories: storage
  author: Eshan Shafeeq
  header_img: 
---

AWS Import/Export Disk accelerates moving large amounts data into and out of the AWS cloud using portable storage devices for transport. AWS Import/Export Disk transfers your data directly onto and off of storage devices using Amazon's high-speed internal network and bypassing the internet.

### Types of Snowballs
* Snowball
* Snowball Edge
* Snowmobile

### Snowball
Snowball is petabyte-scale data transport solution that uses secure appliances to transfer large amounts of data into and out of AWS. Using Snowball addresses common challenges with large-scale data transfers including high network costs, long transfer times, and security concerns. Transferring data with Snowball is simple, fast, secure, and can be as little as one-fifth the cost of high-speed internet. 80 TB snowball in all regions. Snowball uses multiple layers of security designed to protect your data including tamper-resistent enclosures, 256-bit encryption, and an industry standard Trusted Platform Module (TPM) designed to ensure both security and full chain-of-custody of your data. Once the data transfer job has been processed and verified, AWS performs a software erasure of Snowball appliance.

### Snowball Edge
AWS Snowball Edge is a 100TB data transfer device with on-board storage and compute capabilities. You can use Snowball Edge to move large amounts of data into and out of AWS, as a temporary storage tier for large local datasets, or to support local workloads in remote or offline locations.

Snowball Edge connects your existing applications and infrastructure using standard storage interfaces, streamlinning the data transfer process and minimizing setup and integration. Snowball Edge can cluster together to form a local storage tier and process your data on-premises, helping ensure your applications continue to run even when they are not able to access the cloud.

**Its not just storage capacity its compute capacity in a box as well**

### Snowmobile
AWS Snowmobile is an Exabyte-scale data transfer service use to move extremely large amounts of data to AWS. You can transfer upto 100PB per Snowmobile. a 45-long ruggedized shipping container, pulled by a semi-trailer truck. Snowmobile makes it easy to move massive volumes of data to the cloud, including video libraries, image repositories, or even complete data center migration. Transfering data with Snowmobile is secure, fast and cost effective.


### Exam tips
* Understand what snowball is
* Understand what Import Export is
* Snowball Can do
    * Import to S3
    * Export from S3

