---
  layout: post
  title: DNS 101
  subtitle: 
  tags: [ networking, dns, ip, resolve, route53 ]
  categories: networking
  author: Eshan Shafeeq
  header_img: 
---

* DNS is used to convert human friendly names, such as `https://google.com` into an Internet Protocol Address such as `https://92.93.94.95`.
* IP addresses are used by computers to identify each other on the network. IP addresses commonly come in 2 different forms, IPv4 and IPv6.
* IPv4 address space is a 32 bit field and has over 4 billion different addresses.
* IPv6 address space is a 128 bit field and has over 340 undecillion addresses.

### Top Level Domains
* The last word in a domain name represents the "top level domain".
    * .com
    * .edu
    * .gov
    * .me
    * .io
    * .org
* The second word in a domain name represents the second level domain name" *optional and depends on the domain.*
    * .**co**.uk
    * .**gov**.uk
    * .**com**.au

### Domain Registrars
A registrar is an authority that can assign domain names directly under one or more top-level domains. These domains are registered with InterNIC, a service of ICANN, which enforces uniqueness of domain names across the Internet. Each domain name becomes registered in a central database known as the WhoIS database.

### SOA Records
**Start Of Authrority Records**

*The SOA Record Stores Information About*;
* The name of the server that supplied the data for the zone.
* The administrator of the zone.
* The current version of the zone.
* The number of seconds a secondary name server should wait before checking for updates.
* The number of seconds a secondary name server should wait before retrying a failed zone transfer.
* The maximum number of seconds that a secondary name server can use data before it must either be refreshed or expire.
* The default number of seconds for the time-to-live file on resource records.

### NS Records
* NS stands for Name Server Records.
* Used by Top Level Domain servers to direct traffic to Content DNS server which contains authoritative DNS records.

### A Records
* The A record is the fundemental type of DNS record and the "A" in A record stands for "Address". 
* The A record is used by a computer to translate the name of the domain to the IP address.

> Elastic load balancers never have an IPv4 / IPv6 Address, they always have a DNS name.

### TTL Record
* The length that a DNS record is cached on either the Resolving Server or the users own local PC is equal to the value of the "Time To Live" (TTL) in seconds. 
* The lower the time to live, the faster changes to DNS records take to propagate through the internet.
* When migrating to different servers, always remember to lower the TTL to 300 seconds ( 5 minutes ) since 2 days before the migration, since by default the TTL is set to 2 days.

### CNAMES
* A Canonical Name ( CName ) can be used to resolve one domain name to another. 
* For example, you may have a mobile website with the domain name http://m.acloud.guru that is used for when users browse to your domain name on their mobile devices. You may also want the name http://mobile.acloud.guru to resolve this same address.

### Alias Records
* Alias Records are used to map resource record sets in your hosted zone to Elastic Load Balancers, CloudFront distributions, or S3 buckets that are configured as websites.
* Alias Records work like CNAME record in that you can map one DNS name (www.example.com) to another `target` DNS name (elb1234.elb.amazonaws.com).
* Key difference - A CNAME cant be used for naked domain names (zone apex record)
* You cant have a CNAME for http://acloud.guru, it must be either an A record or an Alias.
* Alias resource record sets can save you time because Amazon Route53 automatically recognizes changes in the record sets that the alias resource record set refers to.


### Exam Tips
* ELB's do not have a predefined public IPv4 addresses, you resolve them using a DNS name.
* Understand the difference between as Alias Record and a CNAME.
* Given the choice always choose an Alias Record over a CNAME.
